# CMPS 364 - Lab 4

For this lab you may work in teams of 2 or 3.  Please ONLY submit one copy of your solution, and please make sure you indicate on your submission who you worked with (put it in comments at the top ofyour python program).

To get used to using Python, we are going to write a program to resolve some of the same queries we built in Lab 3, on the very same schema - with modification to support PostgreSQL.

Here is the schema from Lab 3, with a few details omitted to keep things a little more simple.

- Orders
  - Order number (Primary Key)
  - Customer ID (Primary Key for Customers table)
  - Serial Number (Primary Key for Machines table)
- Customers
  - ID (Primary Key)
  - Name
- Machines
  - Serial Number (Primary Key)
  - Model Number (Primary Key for Models table)
- Model
  - ID (Primary key)
  - Speed
  - RAM
  - HD
  - Price
  - Manufacturer ID (Primary key for Manufacturer table)
- Manufacturer
  - ID (Primary Key)
  - Name

Manufacturer and Model is a One to Many relationship - Manufacturers have many Models, but a Model is associated with just one Manufacturer.

## Seeding the data base
Your program will not create the database schema, and will not populate the initial data set.  I have provided a `populate.py` file to do this for you.
**Do not edit this file in any way** - other than to change the connection string to your own (which is provided to you by ElephantSQL.  Run populate.py, you'll now have a database set up for you.

Download [populate.py](populate.py)

*Hint - it would be a good idea to take a look at `populate.py` - you'll need to do this type of thing your self too eventually*

#  Your program
Your program should start by immediate printing a **nicely** formatted list of customers.  Your listing should show their ID and Name.

Your program should then ask the user to enter an ID.

Using this ID, your program should display the following information for the selected customer:
- Total number of machines purchased.
- Total amount of money spent.
- List (in a nicely formatted table) of each model that the customer purchased - which should include the manufacturer name, Serial Number, and Price.

If the user enters an ID that does not correspond to a customer, then your program should exit immediately.

Here is some sample output:
```
------ Customers -----------------------------------------------------
    1                 Kasandra Cryer
    2               Ferne Linebarger
    3                 Britany Manges
    4                   Alma Secrist
    5                   Sanda Archer
    6                  Michal Verona
    7                      Yuki Maio
    8                 Nichole Chiles
    9                     Margy Avis
   10                   Elana Shahid
   11                Marvella Searcy

Enter a customer ID:  6

------ Purchase History-----------------------------------------------
  Serial #  |   Price  |       Manufactuer
----------------------------------------------------------------------
         7      649.0                 dell
        21      770.0                 dell
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total machines purchased:   2
Total money spent:          1419.0
```